her paintings have a distinctive
one-of-a-kind style her unibrow has
become iconic if you've seen her once
you'll never confuse her with anyone
else Frida Kahlo was an extremely strong
woman whose brilliant works of art were
inspired by her own lifelong challenges
and sufferings it seems like there was a
veiled mystery around Frida ever since
she was born even though her birth year
was 1907 she changed it to 1910 and she
didn't do it to be three years younger
but to have a connection to the Mexican
Revolution that started in 1910 and
lasted up until 1920 that national
revolution also known as the Mexican
civil war has greatly affected the
government and culture of Frida's
Beloved Country and has brought
important reforms her mother
Matilda Calderon came from Oaxaca Mexico
and her father
Wilhelm Guillermo Kahlo was of Hungarian
German descent Frida had three sisters
as a girl she never had good help at the
age of six she was diagnosed with polio
myelitis as a result of this infectious
disease Frida walked with a limp her
entire life and her legs were
disproportionate the right one was a
little thinner than the left one she
tried to hide this defect by wearing
long skirts but it didn't save her from
the mockery of her peers
despite this her solid character pushed
her to be a good student and a creative
personality it may have been the health
problems that inspired Frida to become a
doctor she entered the best High School
in Mexico called La prepa Toria in
Mexico City there were just 35 girls and
1965 boys at the school unlike her
former classmates students at La Papa
Toria were creative and active like
Frida so she made some loyal friends
they called themselves the catsuit
chance after the Cape's they all warned
and took part in political debates and
organized pranks Frida famous for her
bursting energy was one of the leaders
of the group at the age of 18 the future
artists got into a terrible
Siddhant she was traveling by bus and a
streetcar crashed into it
she broke her collarbone two ribs and
her leg crushed her foot and her
shoulder was dislocated but probably the
most painful were the injuries to her
spine and pelvis that broke in three
places her injuries were so extensive
the doctors didn't think she would
survive but a strong spirit like Frieda
couldn't be crushed she was unconscious
for several weeks and when she woke up
she immediately asked her father to buy
her art supplies he was the person who
designed a special stand for her so she
could draw lying down and also put a
huge mirror right above her the first
painting she drew after the accident was
the bus she drew it with a pencil she
said many times that drawing gave her
life power and it was the thing along
with her relatives that helped her
recover unfortunately if you think she
only suffered physical pain you'd be
wrong Frieda herself said there were two
accidents in my life one was when a bus
hit a tram and the second was Diego she
met Diego Rivera several years after the
accident Frida had just started drawing
and decided to show her work to a
respectable and experienced artist he
thought her work was very good and
something clicked between them the
couple got married in 1929 she was 22
and he was 43 he was not the most
handsome man quite plump but extremely
charming the extravagant couple had a
nickname the elephant and the dove Diego
was never a good husband two of his
previous marriages ended because he
cheated his third marriage was not a
happy exception Rita was aware of her
husband's numerous love affairs but she
didn't confront him maybe it was revenge
when she had an affair with a
revolutionary named Leon Trotsky who
found shelter in their house according
to some she also had affairs with the
poet vladimir mayakovsky and the mexican
figure Chavez L of Argos Frida became
pregnant several times but all of her
pregnancies ended with miscarriages
because of that same unfortunate
accident even after doctors recommended
bed
freida still couldn't give birth to a
healthy child and she's sunk into
depression she expressed all of her
emotions on her canvases her brightest
work reflecting this incredibly painful
topic was Henry Ford Hospital which she
created after her miscarriage in Detroit
in 1932 Diego tried to cheer up his wife
by bringing her tin panels and painting
materials Frida painted herself in a
twisted body position to express the
pain she was going through the red
ribbons stand for umbilical cords there
is a male fetus floating above her and a
snail to show how slow the operation was
the pink orthopedic cast of the pelvic
zone and a pelvic bone are reminders of
the bus accident that caused Frida to
paint throughout her life the orchid
under the bed is shaped like a uterus
and was a gift from Diego in 1939 after
a painful divorce with her husband Frida
Kahlo created her iconic self-portrait
the two freitas it shows the two
different sides of her character
connected by a vein and holding hands
the Frida on the left is heartbroken and
has scissors in her hand ready to cut
the vein the other Frida has a full
heart and is holding a portrait of her
beloved Diego one year later she painted
another iconic self-portrait with thorn
necklace and hummingbird despite the
necklace causing her to bleed Frida is
wearing it with dignity the artist
created a total of 55 self-portraits
most of them were of herself surrounded
by animals she loved animals and had
dogs monkeys parrots and pigeons as pets
Frida valued her self-portraits a lot
because many of them were an expression
of her difficult life in 1940 Frida had
very serious health problems and was
admitted to a hospital
Diego came to her right away and
proposed to her again and she accepted
his proposal with every year passing
Frida's condition only got worse she had
several serious surgeries but her
condition didn't improve in 1953 her leg
had to be amputated because of gangrene
this
year she had a personal exhibition in
Mexico which she attended on her bed she
felt that she would die soon so she
wrote in her diary I hoped the exit is
joyful and I hope never to return
Frida Kahlo finished her last work eight
days before her death it was very
inspiring and bright seemingly simple in
composition but complex when it comes to
emotions it was originally called
watermelons but became well known by the
quote carved on one of the watermelons
viva la vida that translates as long
live life the artist died of pneumonia
in 1945 at the same house she was born
in in 1955 the house where Frida lived
was turned into a museum had her fans
from around the world still visited in
her lifetime full of pain and struggle
the Mexican artist completed more than
150 paintings her art has inspired other
forms of creativity for example her
iconic the broken column actually
inspired jean paul gaultier
to create the costume for Milla Jovovich
in the Fifth Element
movies have been made about her
including the wonderful film Frida with
Salma Hayek as the leading role she
inspired books and even music has been
composed in her honor the legacy of this
diverse personality and incredibly
strong woman still lives on today do you
like Frida Kahlo style let me know down
in the comments if you learned something
new today then give this video a like
share it with your friends and here are
some more cool videos to check out from
the bright side of life